It is highly used for transaction management.
Because in the current banking system 
1.There is a transaction fees that is deducted by the third party serving the transaction.
Example: A person sends 100 rupees so with a 2% comission the receiver gets 98 and the bank gets 2.
2.Issue of double spending
Example: A person X wants to send money to Y & Z at the same time
3.Banks prone to financial crisis and fractional reserve banking
4.Centralized power where banks are answerable to the central authorities like Reserve bank of India.
5.No accountability because of private ledger system i.e. people are not aware of the transaction of their money by the banks.
6.Bank systems are prone to hacks.

Blockchain has :
Decentralized power i.e. there is distributed ledger system
Public ledger system provides public access to the ledger
Transactions are immutable and cannot be hacked
Double spending is not allowed because of block transaction system
The transaction fees is zero or minimal

What is blockchain?
Blockchain is the technology used by well known Bitcoin system. It keeps the identity of people completely anonymous. It is a public distributed database holding ecrypted ledgers.
It is the use of mathemaics to create a secure distributed ledger which enables transactions without the need for third parties.

A miner is involved in verifying the transactions and in turn gets an incentive to do that. But becoming a miner is not easy because as time passes the complexity increases.

How blockchain works?

A transaction request is made -> The transaction gets broadcasted to P2P network -> Validation of the transaction happens -> After verification the transaction becomes part of the ledger and a block is added the existing blockchain -> Transaction gets completed

A block is the current transactions which become a permanent part of the blockchain once verified.

Blockchain uses:
Key encryption by using public and private key sharing among peers where the public key can be the account number.
 
Types of blockchain:

Public - Ledgers visible to all and anyone can verify to add block
Private - Only specific people in the organisation allowed to verify but generally everyone can see the ledgers
Consortium - Only specific people can verify and also only specific can see the transactions like banks

Use cases:
Finance
Healthcare
Law and enforcement
Voting
IoT
Real estate
Online entertainment

What is Blockchain wallet?

A wallet is like the bank account in a blockchain.
It helps keep records of transactions and also do transactions.

Types of wallet:
Based on location of private keys - Hot wallet & Cold wallet
Based on devices and clients - Online web wallet, Mobile wallet, Desktop wallet, Physical wallet, Hardware wallets

What is a Smart Contract?

Smart contracts are executable logic that runs on a blockchain network.
In layman terms it is a program that is associated with a blockchain.
Solidity is the programming language majorly used for such contracts.

What is Dapps?

Dapps are decentralized apps i.e. unlike the traditional apps where we have a server that contains APIs and data we decentralize the api and data using ethereum network.
And it is actually a code run by many people to create a decentralized network.
The layers of Dapp in order:
Dapp front-end
Smart contract storage
Ethereum network

What is Hyperledger?

Just like nodejs and other projects under Linux foundation Hyperledger is an open source project under linux foundation focused on blockchain use case.

Since this is a theory for blockchain make sure to check Hashgraphs which are an integral part of blockchain.